* Coil Winding

Winding coils by hand is never fun. I've managed to make the process
significantly easier for small runs of coils by using some tools
available at the Nottingham Hackspace.

** The Jig

#+html: <img src="render.png" width="400" />

This was laser cut using the laser cutter at Nottingham
Hackspace. It's cut out of 3mm acrylic. The pieces can be stacked
together as an acrylic sandwich and held in place using M3 screws. The
outer parts of the sandwich are circular to make winding a coil easier
on a lathe - a rectangular shape will lead to the wire being snagged
on corners. The larger holes allow the coil to be tied or zip-tied
together prior to unstacking the sandwich. I've produced several 300
turn coils in this way.

The SVG in this directory is path only which makes it easy to export
as DXF and cut on a laser cutter. I've included a PNG for
visualisation purposes only.

Once the coil has been tied and removed from the jig, it can be bent
into the correct shape. This has been useful for matching the curve of
CRTs.

** Winding on the lathe

Nottingham Hackspace has a decent selection of lathes available for
use. One of the inductionless lathes is referred to as the "mini
lathe", and is, unsurprisingly, quite small. The mini lathe can be
used down to quite low speeds (< 100rpm or so). To simplify the
counting, I use a reed switch and arduino to count the number of
rotations, simply sticking a magnet to the lathe's chuck.

The Arduino code for this counting is very simple:

#+BEGIN_SRC c
void setup() {
  Serial.begin(9600);
  pinMode(2, INPUT_PULLUP);
}

int prevState = -1;
int counter = 0;

void loop() {
  int reed = digitalRead(2);
  if (prevState != reed)
    if (reed == 0)
      Serial.println(++counter);
  prevState = reed;
}
#+END_SRC

The serial terminal can be monitored while this runs until the desired
number of turns is achieved. I have a video demonstrating this
process:

#+HTML: <iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/k3v9O-aFzHc" title="YouTube video player" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen></iframe>
